# Dynamic Programming

ToC
===
* [](#)
* [](#)
* [](#)
* [](#)


## Daynamic Programming
- algorithm which solve big problme by small problem.
  - and that need to meet 2 properties
    - Overlapping Subproblem
    - Optimal Substructure
- the terminology of dynamic has no meaning.

 
### Overlapping Subproblem
- F(n) = F(n-1) + F(n-2)
  - solve by smaller problem
  - and overlapped also.

### Optimal Substructure
- we can find solution from solution of smaller problem.
  - e.g, shortest path : if A -> B -> C -> D
                         and the shortes way from B~D is B-> C-> D.
- no matter problem size, the solution of specific is all same.
  - Due to this property, memoization can be used.

## Fibbonacci
- [link]
- [show]


## 2 Approaches
### Top-down
- by using recursion
1. problem(n)
2. make it smaller problme
  - p(n) = p(n-1) + p(n-2);
3. slove the smaller problem.
  - by calling the smaller problem.
4. After solve the smaller problme, 
   then you can solve the main problem.

- Time Complexity
  - the number of count to fill the memo array. => N
  - x (multiply)
  - complexity to fill the one memo array => only add operaton exity so => O(1)
  - The time complexity of Top-Down is O(N)
 
### Bottom-up
- It find the solution from smaller one.
- by using for loop


## Tactic for DP
1. define d[i] or dp[i] what it will be insert.
  - d[i] = ith fibonacci.
2. then make the algebra how to make the d[i];
  - d[i] = d[i-1] + d[i-2];
3. Implement it.


## Practice
* [ ] Make one
* [ ] 2xn tiling
* [ ] 2xn tiling2
* [ ] Adding combination with 1,2,3
* [ ] Selling the carp bread
* [ ] ladder number
* [ ] Ascending number
* [ ] Echin number
* [ ] Sticker
* [ ] Wine
* [ ] Most longest sub sequence number
* [ ] Most biggest sub sequence number
* [ ] Most longest descending sub seuqence number
* [ ] Most longest bitonic sub sequence number
* [ ] Continuous sum
* [ ] Going up to stair
* [ ] Sum of the Jegop number
* [ ] Tiling
* [ ] Padoban sequence number
* [ ] Hap bunhae
* [ ] Password







